a) One distinct debate surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic is whether or not people should be wearing masks in public places for the sake of public health and safety. Many members of the scientific community have mentioned that wearing masks in public places reduces transmission from person to person. However there has been a great debate about the mask mandate from people that reject these scientific claims. Some people put into question the efficacy of masks in a public setting and others protest that masks strip away their rights to their own bodily autonomy, stating that mandates are undemocratic (John, 2021). Other protesters argue that COVID-19 is a hoax put into place to control the population (Reuters Staff, 2020). The debate on mask mandates in public places has sparked extreme polarization and unrest amongst the world and has spread a vast variety of misinformation which has made it increasingly difficult to make an educated choice on what to do on an individual level.

b) There are several factors why some members of the public resist or reject 'scientific truths' related to this debate. One factor is cognitive bias, which is a tendency to interpret new things based on the preconceived notions that one may have about something.  According to Barash's 2021 essay, science is not an immutable body of knowledge, which means that it is an ever-changing process of understanding our natural world. The act of this change is called "paradigm shifting" which represents how science can oftentimes change the way that we perceive the world. However, not everyone is willing to participate in changing their understanding of the world since paradigm shift can, at times, conflict with common sense (Barash, 2021). The scientific community mentions how COVID-19 is a virus that is mostly transmitted through droplets (Campbell, 2020). Droplet transmission refers to droplets that are emitted from your body into the environment when sneezing and coughing. As such, it has been stated by figures within the scientific community that wearing masks that cover your mouth and nose will reduce the risk of transmitting any kind of virus to other people (Campbell, 2020). However despite all of this overwhelming evidence, there are people that still continue to debate the effectiveness of mask mandates. Another factor is social influence, which is the effect that people can have on each other's opinions and thoughts. Throughout the course of 2020 and 2021 there has been an influx of internet groups that have spread misinformation and conspiracy theories about COVID-19 which have had a profoundly negative impact on society as a whole because it influenced the people that were more prone to distrusting already established medical institutions (Barash, 2021).

Aeonmag. (n.d.). _Science needs the freedom to constantly change its mind: Aeon Essays_. Aeon. https://aeon.co/essays/science-needs-the-freedom-to-constantly-change-its-mind

Campbell, D. (n.d.). _Why are some COVID-19 debates so polarizing? U of T Health expert breaks down the issues_ . University of Toronto. https://www.utoronto.ca/news/why-are-some-covid-19-debates-so-polarizing-u-t-health-expert-breaks-down-issues

John, T. (2021, January 3). _2020’s alternative universe is not going away_. CNN. https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/03/uk/covid-19-conspiracy-theories-2020-intl-gbr/index.html

Thomson Reuters. (2020, December 2). _Fact check: Covid-19 is not a hoax, it can cause pneumonia and the vaccine will not contain a microchip_. Reuters. https://www.reuters.com/article/uk-factcheck-pandemic-idUSKBN28C3DJ




